## Free Blog Setups

In 2020 I read [a blog post by Soatok](https://soatok.blog/2020/06/15/the-world-needs-more-furry-bloggers/) that explained why "we need more furry bloggers in the world", in their own words.  At the time we were in the middle of an once-in-a-century pandemic so it was the perfect opportunity, being stuck at home as so many people were.

Five years later I started my own blog -- for free, hosted via [Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/).  As I don't have a lot of income (lost my job in early 2024) this is the best solution for now, and I want to show similarly struggling furs how to do this; we need more furry bloggers, as Soatok said.

---

## But how can I do that?

It's not difficult.  There are a variety of blog themes out there, as well as Github the platform itself, that you can choose.

The blog template you see right now is based on [Chad Baldwin's blog](https://chadbaldwin.net/).  He made the template available here, <https://github.com/chadbaldwin/simple-blog-bootstrap/generate> and there are instructions to follow here too: [Blog Template Instructions](https://chadbaldwin.net/2021/03/14/how-to-build-a-sql-blog.html).

I don't care about adding new features or whatever to my blog right now so this is the perfect solution.  If you don't care either, it may be perfect for you too.

However keep in mind that this solution may not be perfect for everyone.  Maybe you don't want to depend on GitHub, maybe you want WordPress instead.  That's fine.

My rationale for using GitHub Pages for my blog is simple:
- I do not want to pay monthly subscriptions.

My financial situation is...less than ideal, to say at least.  Any solution that provides a free blogging platform is sweet in my eye.

As for the custom domain -- feen.zone -- I paid for it, however you don't need to pay for a custom domain if you don't want it.  Your GitHub Pages blog can be [username].github.io and that's fine for the majority of people, I think.

Hopefully this is helpful.